TEACHER
Executive Profile
Passionate, creative leader with more than 5 years experience spearheading special events, projects, and initiatives in corporate and educational
settings. Strong oral and written communication skills in English and Spanish which establish and maintain key working relationships across
audiences. Effective trainer/presenter of programs and initiatives for administration, colleagues, and students. Enthusiastic people person with the
ability to inspire, influence, and motivate others to be innovators and supporters of constant positive change.
Skill Highlights
Professional Experience
Teacher Jul 2005 to Current
Company Name ï¼​ City , State
Current assignment: 4th grade Bilingual Teacher.
Produced academic achievements every year with 90-100% passing in all content areas.
Produced an 80% exceeding progress Mathematics and a 30% exceeding progress performance in Reading for the 2013-2014 school year
serving a Bilingual-Special Education class.
Served as a Foro Abierto consultant, a Spanish Reading First educational program.
Major role player in many school initiatives and committees such as PBIS, Partners in Education, Robotics Camp, PLTW, and Vertical
Alignment teams.
Invited to present as a spokesperson for Lujan Chavez at the Region 19-PBIS 2012-2013 Border Conference and after that presented
alongside team every year in annual PBIS conferences.
Presenter alongside our PBIS team at the annual Region 19-PBIS Conference.
Helped launch Robotics Elementary Camp and served as spokesperson for the parents assembly on the last day of camp responding to
district and media questions.
Launched and have executed an annual talent show since 2008 which results in a positive, energetic event that celebrates our year-long
efforts as a school.
Kindergarten Bilingual Teacher Aug 2003 to May 2005
Company Name ï¼​ City , State
Responsible for a self-contained kindergarten bilingual classroom for the 2004-2005 school year.
Responsible for a team teaching kindergarten bilingual classroom for the 2003-2004 school year.
Participated as cultural liaison and secretary board member of PTA for the 2004-2005 school.
year.
Sales and Marketing/PR Manager Mar 1999 to Sep 2002
Company Name ï¼​ City , State
Responsible for assisting director of sales in expanding the corporate market during 2000.
Promoted to corporate sales manager within five months.
Revived a relationship with Border Patrol government account which produced an additional 44,000 revenue in August of 2000.
Promoted to groups sales manager in February of 2001 to develop an under-producing non-corporate market.
Analyzed, reinvented, and executed a new marketing plan for the Mexican National market, which resulted in $35,000 revenue in weekend
business from Mexico during 2001.
Met and exceeded sales goals for 2001 in future business for 2002 and booked over $295,000 in future business for 2003.
Major role player in the increasing of market share by 11% over previous year, moving from #5 of 8 to #1 of 8 in competitive set.
Increased RevPAR by 10.7% over previous year, moving from 5 of 8 to #3 of 8 in competitive set.
Averaged an annual 107% market penetration in 2001.
Launched advertising campaign to include direct mail, marketing packages for website, and radio spots to promote hotel in Chihuahua and
El Paso.
Performed quarterly visits to maintain public relations with key players in the Mexican National Conventions and Visitors Bureau in
Chihuahua, Mexico.
Joined "Viva El Paso", Southwest Airlines, and local radio stations to plan and deliver an annual event that marketed El Paso as a
destination site within Texas and Arizona.
Education
M.D , Educational Leadership 2015 Concordia University ï¼​ City , State Educational Leadership
Bachelor of Business , Marketing El Paso 1999 University of Texas ï¼​ City , State , USA Marketing El Paso
Personal Information
I know that my marketing experience fused with twelve years as a Texas educator have prepared me for this position. I am an Ysleta at-risk
success myself, and I have excellent community relations to enhance YISD's valuable stance in El Paso.
Skills
academic, Photoshop, advertising, cancer, competitive, conferences, consultant, content, creative design, Creative Problem Solving, Client
Relations, direct mail, editing, government, Illustrator, director, marketing plan, marketing, market, materials, Mathematics, Microsoft Office,
2000, Word, Presenter, producing, progress, Project management, public relations, Public Speaking, Quick Learner, radio, Reading, read,
Robotics, sales, sales manager, scripts, speak Spanish, Spanish, Teacher, teaching, Technical Writing, video, web site, website
Additional Information
Additional Information I know that my marketing experience fused with twelve years as a Texas educator have prepared me for this
position. I am an Ysleta at-risk success myself, and I have excellent community relations to enhance YISD's valuable stance in El Paso.
(former supervisor)
